Add AI_USAGE_POLICY.md for sustainable contributions (#92)
kyverno/community: AI_USAGE_POLICY.md

# Kyverno AI Policy

**AI is welcome. Humans are responsible.**

Current AI tools are useful as coding assistants — but not as autonomous contributors. Anyone submitting content to Kyverno is fully responsible for the correctness, intent, testing, and licensing compliance of the contribution.

## General Guidelines

1. Contributors are fully responsible and accountable for all their submissions. This includes Pull requests (PRs), issues, comments or any other form of engagement with the project and its maintainers.

> 2. To avoid maintainer overload, contributors are limited to 5 open PRs at any given time. Contributors are required to address PR comments and merge PRs, before creating additional PRs.

Reviewer: Is this across repos, or in a single repo.

Is 5 too few? Should we make it 10?

Author: Good question! Originally, the thought was 5 open PRs across all repos. It would be great to get some input from @eddycharly @realshuting @lucchmielowski @aerosouund @fjogeleit and other maintainers about these limits.

> 2. To avoid maintainer overload, contributors are limited to 5 open PRs at any given time. Contributors are required to address PR comments and merge PRs, before creating additional PRs.

Author: ```suggestion
2. To avoid maintainer overload, contributors are limited to 8 open PRs at any given time across all repositories. Contributors are required to address all open PR comments and merge all open PRs, before creating additional PRs.
```

3. Contributors using AI to generate content should:

   * Thoroughly review all AI-generated content before submission

   * Understand the reason and impacts of the changes

   * Refine AI output to meet project quality standards

   * Take full ownership of all submitted content regardless of origin

   * Ensure content does not violate legal copyright or other laws

4. Pull Requests that include AI generated code can only be for issues that are accepted i.e., not labeled as “triage”.

5. Contributors SHOULD disclose any substantial use of AI. Disclosure SHOULD take the form of a trailer line within the commit attributing the AI tool used. Acceptable formats include:

   * Assisted-by: Claude \<noreply@anthropic.com\>

   * Co-authored-by: Claude \<noreply@anthropic.com\>

   * Generated-by: Claude \<[noreply@anthropic.com](mailto:noreply@anthropic.com)\>

   Many AI coding tools automatically add `Co-authored-by` trailers—this is acceptable and need not be changed to `Assisted-by`.

> Kyverno Maintainers are exempt from these rules and may use AI tools at their discretion; they've proven themselves trustworthy to apply good judgment.

Reviewer: Can we link to the list of maintainers?

> Kyverno Maintainers are exempt from these rules and may use AI tools at their discretion; they've proven themselves trustworthy to apply good judgment.

Author: ```suggestion
[Kyverno Maintainers](https://github.com/kyverno/community/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md) are exempt from these rules and may use AI tools at their discretion; they've proven themselves trustworthy to apply good judgment.
```
